Raw data about sales in Sheet Orders
Columns

Row ID			
Order ID 		
Order Date		
Order Priority	
Order Quantity	
Sales			
Discount		
Ship Mode		
Profit
Unit Price
Shipping Cost
Customer Name
Province	
Region	
Customer Segment
Product Category	
Product Sub-Category	
Product Name	
Product Container	
Product Base Margin	
Ship Date

Objective 1
- Calculate the total sales and overall profit based on the order priority and the shipping method, add a slicer to make it easier to filter your data based on 
geographic region and product packaging and display the sales and profitability ratio in relation to the total sales.


Calculate the total sales and overall profit based on the order priority (field “Order Priority”) and the shipping method (“Ship Mode”), 
by placing the “Order Priority” field in the row labels and the “Ship Mode” field in the columns of a pivot table.

Objective 2 
- Examine the relationship between shipping cost and sales.

Create a pivot table in which i place the geographic region (field “Province”) in the rows and the shipping method (“Ship Mode”) in the columns. 
In the pivot table, i created a new calculated field that will calculate the ratio of shipping cost to total sales.

Objective 3
- Find the sum of sales, shippping cost and profit for each segment and customer. Filter customers by the first letter of their names.

I add a new column in orders sheet where i use the left function to extract the first letter of the name of customers.
I add a pivot table where i place Customer Segment and Customer Name in rows and sum of sales, shippping cost and profit in columns,
I add a slicer to the page using the new column with the first letter of the name of customers.

Sheet Pivots for visualization

I used some pivots to create charts to use for my dashboard:

Profit by Order Priority
Sales by Ship Mode
Shipping cost by Sales by Region
Sales and profit by Customer Segment
Profit by year and month
 For this pivot i added two columns in Orders, one for year and one for month of order date using year and month functions
Sales by Month
From this month we conclude that the month with the most sales is December and the least sales is June.